Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
A. A programming language is a computer language engineered to create a standard form of commands that can be interpreted
into a code understood by a machine

What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
A. Java Compiler: This tool reads class and interface definitions and compiles them into bytecode class files.
  Java Interpreter: It is used to interpret the .class Java files that have been compiled by Java compiler.
  Java Disassembler: It is the disassembly tool of JDK that disassembles one or more class files.
  Java Header File Generator: It generates header and source files that are needed to implement native methods.
  Java Documentation: It helps to maintain code with proper documentation.
  Java Debugger: It provides inspection and debugging of a local or remote Java Virtual Machine.
  Java Applet Viewer: It is used to view the Java applets.

What is IDE?
A. IDE or integrated development environment is a software suite that incorporates basic tools required to write
  and test software.
What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
A. IntelliJ, NetBeans, Eclipse,,Codenvy, DrJava, BlueJ, JGrasp.

Explain the entire java life cycle.
A. After writing a source code the javac compiler converts it into byte code. Byte code is in the form of .class file.
The class file then get loaded into the JVM using java loader. JVM then sends all the information to the operating
system which shows the output.

what is class?
A. class is the blueprint that describes the behavior and state of the object of its type.
What is object?
A. An object is an instance of a class.
What is the entry point of an application?
A. The main method.
Why main is static?
A. Main method is static so that it can be accessible to the Operating System without object creation.
Which class is the superclass of all classes?
A. java.lang.object
What is difference between path and classpath variables?
A. Path is an environment variable which is used by the operating system to find the executables.
   Classpath is an environment variable which is used by the Java compiler to find the path of classes.
   What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
A. Abstract class can have abstract and non-abstract methods. Interface can have only abstract methods.
   Abstract class does not support multiple inheritance but Interface does.
   Abstract class can have final, non-final, static and non-static variables. Interface has only static and final variables

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
A.I cannot. I can only instantiate one of their subclasses.

what is Access Specifier?
A. These are keywords that set the accessibility of classes, methods and other members in a program.

What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
A. Object Oriented Programming
   Abstraction - Reduce complexity + isolated impact of change.
   Encapsulation - Reduce complexity + increase reusability.
   Inheritance- Eliminate redundant code
   Polymorphism- Refactor ugly switch / case statements

What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
A. Package in Java is used to encapsulate a group of classes, sub packages and interfaces. It prevents naming conflicts,
   makes searching and locating easier and provides controlled access.

What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
A. . API or Application Programming Interface is a set of definitions, communication protocols and tools for building software.

Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
A. No. Because when calling the method the compiler will not be able to determine which class method to be called and
       which class method gets the priority.

What is method overloading and when it happens?
A. Having methods with the same name. We use it when we have methods that functions by doing the same thing.

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
A.The Exception Handling in Java is one of the powerful mechanism to handle the runtime errors so that normal flow of the application can be maintained.

What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
A. The static keyword belongs to the class than an instance of the class, Variable,  Method .

What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
A.final is a non-access modifier applicable only to a variable, a method or a class
It is used to define an entity that can only be assigned once.
final variable can only be initialized once and a final method cannot be overridden.

What is final, finally and finalize?
Ans: final: value of final variables cannot be changed once initialized. Final class cannot be subclassed. Final
     method cannot be overridden.
     finally keyword is used in association with a try/catch block and guarantees that a section of code will be executed,
     even if an exception is thrown.
     finalize is a method that performs clean-up activity. The Garbage Collector always calls it just before the
     deleting or destroying the object which is eligible for Garbage Collection.

What is a constructor ?
A. A constructor is a block of code similar to a method that's called when an instance of an object is created.

Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
A. Yes
If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
A. Class
What is "this" keyword in java ?
Ans: "this" keyword is a reference variable that refers to the current object. It can be used to refer current class
     instance variable.

What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
Ans: "super" keyword in java is a reference variable that is used to refer parent class objects.

What is JVM stand for ?
A. Java virtual Machine.

Is JVM platform independent?
A. yes
What version of java are you using?
A. A. java version "1.8.0_201"

What is JAR stand for ?
A. Java Archive
What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
A. JDK provides the environment to develop and execute the Java program. JVM is part of the JDK and it is responsible
   for executing the java program line by line.

What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
Ans : JRE contains JVM and class libraries. JRE is the container that is installed in the system
      and JVM is the content of JRE that actually runs the program

What is compile time and run time?
A. Compile time describes the event when the compiler builds the program.
   Runtime describes the event when a program is running.

What is heap?
A. The heap is memory set aside for dynamic allocation. There is no enforced pattern to the allocation
   and deallocation of blocks from the heap.

How java manage it's memory?
A. Java has automatic memory management. It has a garbage collector that works in the background to clean up
   the unused objects and free up some memory.

What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
A. Objects of String are immutable and objects of StringBuffer and StringBuilder are mutable.
   StringBuffer and StringBuilder are similar but StringBuilder is faster and preferred over StringBuffer for single
   threaded program. If thread safety is needed then StringBuffer is used.

What is Singleton class?
A. It is a class that allows only a single instance of itself to be created and gives access to that created instance.

What is Serialization and Deserialization?
A. Serialization is a mechanism of converting the state of an object into a byte stream.
Deserialization is the reverse process where the byte stream is used to recreate the actual Java object in memory

when to use transient variable in java?
A. Transient is a keyword which marks a variable not to be serialized when it is persisted to streams of bytes.

Difference between while and do..while loop?
A. The most important difference between while and do-while loop is that in do-while ,
the block of code is executed at least once, even though the condition given is false.
In While loop, the condition is first tested and then the block of code is executed if the test result is true.

What is Enum?
A.  It is a special data type that enables for a variable to be a set of predefined constants.

What is Iterator?
A. Iterator is used in Collection framework to retrieve elements one by one.

Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
A.Integer
Why is String Immutable in Java?
A. For efficiency and security reasons.

What is constructor chaining in Java?
A. Constructor chaining is the process of calling one constructor from another constructor
   with respect to current object.

The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
A. Serial Garbage Collector works by holding all the application threads but Parallel Garbage Collector uses
   multiple threads for garbage collection.

What is JIT stands for?
A. Just-In-Time
Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
A. When a Java program starts Java Virtual Machine (JVM) gets some memory from Operating System. JVM
   uses this memory for all its need and part of this memory is called java heap memory or Heap space.
   All those objects which are no longer in use Garbage collector destroys these objects. Main objective of Garbage Collection is to free heap memory.

Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
A. Garbage collection is not guaranteed in case of programs that use up memory resources faster than
   they are garbage collected

What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
A. Stack memory is used to store local variables and functions while heap memory is used to store objects in Java.

What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
A. Reflection is a capability in Java to look into classes at runtime rather than at compile time.
   It is useful because it allows us to examine a class to see what methods, members, interfaces etc. that it
   contains or implements

what is multithreading in java?
A. It is a process of executing multiple threads simultaneously.

What is the use of synchronization in Java?
A.Synchronization guarantees that no two threads can execute a synchronized method which requires the same lock
  simultaneously or concurrently

What is Framework?
A. It is a large body containing many classes that include prewritten codes where we can add our own code to
   solve a problem in a specific domain.

What are the testing Framework available in java?
A. JUnit, TestNG, JWalk, JWebUnit, TagUnit etc

Difference between jUnit and testNG?
A. TestNG cover the entire core JUnit functionality and even more. TestNG is more advance in parameterize testing,
   dependency testing and suite testing. TestNG is meant for high-level testing and complex integration test

What are the dependencies for this project?
A. mongo java driver, my sql connector and testing, gson, java-json, javax.json

what is dependency injection in java?
A.Dependency Injection in Java is a way to achieve Inversion of control (IoC) in applications by moving objects
  binding from compile time to runtime.

What is static binding and dynamic binding?
A.Static binding uses Class information for binding while Dynamic binding uses Object to resolve binding.








